= Requirements

== `uinput`

`uinput` is a required
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.12/input/uinput.html[kernel module] allows
software running on Linux systems to create virtual input devices. It's
required by the streaming host and it's the only hard requirement that we need
in the host machine's kernel.

Most Linux distributions, such as Ubuntu and Debian, already ship with it.  You
can easily verify that it's installed by checking for the `/dev/uinput` device
on your host:

[source,bash]
----
ls -la /dev/uinput
crw------- 1 root root 10, 223 Jul 15 11:46 /dev/uinput
----

If it's not there by default, consult your distro's documentation for adding
kernel modules. If you're using unRAID, see our <<_tabs_1_unraid,unRAID
instructions>>.  If you're using some other platform and you're having
difficulty with this step, come chat with us about it on
https://discord.gg/kRGUDHNHt2[Discord]; we'd be happy to try to help you get on
the right track.

TIP: If you have issues with inputs (mouse, gamepad, etc) while streaming with
GOW, it's very likely that something is wrong with `uinput`.

== Platform-specific requirements

[tabs]
======
Host Desktop::
+
--
[discrete]
=== Monitor
You must have a monitor connected, or alternatively a dummy plug.

[discrete]
=== User
You must have a user logged in.  To make this easier for unattended systems,
you might want to enable
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AutoLogin[autologin].
--
Headless::
+
--
[discrete]
=== Monitor
You must meet the monitor requirements detailed here: xref:monitor.adoc[Monitor requirements].
--
unRAID::
+
--
[discrete]
=== Monitor
You must meet the monitor requirements detailed here: xref:monitor.adoc[Monitor requirements].

[discrete]
=== `uinput`
unRAID before version 6.11.0-rc3 is missing the required `uinput` kernel module
out of the box. If you are using an older version, we recommend installing the
https://github.com/ich777/unraid-uinput[uinput plugin]

[discrete]
=== `docker-compose`

unRAID doesn't come with `docker-compose`, but you can easily install it by
installing the
https://forums.unraid.net/topic/114415-plugin-docker-compose-manager/[docker-compose-manager]
plugin.

[discrete]
=== NVIDIA GPU

If you have an NVIDIA GPU youâ€™ll also have to install the
https://forums.unraid.net/topic/98978-plugin-nvidia-driver/[nvidia-driver
plugin]
--
======

After you've set up your host, you can xref:installation.adoc[install] GoW.
